Migrate docs from Plone 5 to Plone 6 based on TODOs (#1917)
plone/documentation: docs/backend/subscribers.md

# Subscribers (event handlers)

The Zope Component Architecture’s zope.event package is used to manage subscribeable events in Plone.

Some of the notable characteristics of the Plone event system are:

- It is simple;

> - Subscriber calling order is not modifiable — you cannot set the order in which event handlers are called;

Reviewer: Something like this? Otherwise second part is kind of a dup of the first.
```suggestion
- Subscriber calling is random  — you cannot set the order in which event handlers are called;
```

- Events cannot be cancelled — all handlers will always get the event;
- Event handlers cannot have return values;
- Exceptions raised in an event handler will interrupt the request processing.

## Registering an event handler

Plone events can be scoped:

> - Globally (no scope)
> - Per content type
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Globally (no scope)
- Per content type
- per behavior/ marker interface
```

### Example: Register an event-handler on your content type’s creation

In your `.product/your/product/configure.zcml` insert:

> ```

Reviewer: append XML for syntax highlighting

<subscriber
    for=".interfaces.IMyContentTypeClass
         zope.lifecycleevent.IObjectCreatedEvent"
    handler=".your_python_file.your_method"
    />
```

> The first line defines to which interface you want to bind the execution of your code, which means here, that the code will only be executed if the object is one of your contenttype’s. If you want this to be interface-agnostic, insert an asterix as a wildcard instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The second line defines to which interface you want to bind the execution of your code. 
Here, the event handler code will only be executed if the object is a content-type providing the interface `.interfaces.IMyContentTypeClass`. 
If you want this to be interface-agnostic, insert an asterix `*` as a wildcard instead.
```

> The second line defines the event on which this should happen, which is here ‘IObjectCreatedEvent’ – for Archetypes you should use ‘Products.Archetypes.interfaces.IObjectInitializedEvent’ instead. For more available possible events to be used as a trigger, see [Event handlers](https://6.docs.plone.org/backend/subscribers.html#event-handlers)

Reviewer: No Archetypes anymore.
```suggestion
The third line defines the event on which this should happen, which is here ‘IObjectCreatedEvent’. 
For more available possible events to be used as a trigger, see [Event handlers](https://6.docs.plone.org/backend/subscribers.html#event-handlers)
```
The URL should not be absolute here I suppose?

> The third line gives the path to the script that is supposed to be executed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The fourth line gives the path to the callable (function) that is supposed to be executed.
```

Create your `.product/your/product/your_python_file.py` and insert:
```

> def your_method(object, event):

Reviewer: Its a function and it does not help much, tell the reader what it is: a subscriber
```suggestion
def your_subscriber(object, event):
```

> 
>     # do sth with your created contenttype

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ...
    # do sth with your created contenttype
```

         zope.lifecycleevent.IObjectModifiedEvent"
    handler=".content.SitsPatient.objectModified"
    />
```

### Subscribing using Python

The following subscription is valid through the process life cycle. In unit tests, it is important to clear test event handlers between the test steps.

Example:
```
import zope.component

def my_event_handler(context, event):
    """
    @param context: Zope object for which the event was fired. Usually this is a Plone content object.

    @param event: Subclass of event.
    """
    pass

gsm = zope.component.getGlobalSiteManager()
gsm.registerHandler(my_event_handler, (IMyObject,IMyEvent))
```

## Firing an event

Use `zope.event.notify()` to fire event objects to their subscribers.

Example of how to fire an event in unit tests:
```
import zope.event
from plone.postpublicationhook.event import AfterPublicationEvent

event = AfterPublicationEvent(self.portal, self.portal.REQUEST)
zope.event.notify(event)
```

## Event types

### Creation events

`Products.Archetypes.interfaces.IObjectInitializedEvent` is fired for an Archetypes-based object when it’s being initialised; i.e. when it’s being populated for the first time.

> `Products.Archetypes.interfaces.IWebDAVObjectInitializedEvent` is fired for an Archetypes-based object when it’s being initialised via WebDAV.

Reviewer: remove all archetypes

`Products.Archetypes.interfaces.IEditCancelledEvent`
called for Archetypes-based objects when an edit operation is canceled.

### Delete events

Delete events can be fired several times for the same object. Some delete event transactions are rolled back.

### Copy events

`zope.lifecycleevent.IObjectCopiedEvent` is triggered when an object is copied (will also fire IObjectCreatedEvent event code).

### Workflow events

`Products.DCWorkflow.interfaces.IBeforeTransitionEvent` is triggered before a workflow transition is executed.

`Products.DCWorkflow.interfaces.IAfterTransitionEvent` is triggered after a workflow transition has been executed.

The DCWorkflow events are low-level events that can tell you a lot about the previous and current states.

`Products.CMFCore.interfaces.IActionSucceededEvent` this is a higher level event that is more commonly used to react after a workflow action has completed.

### Zope startup events

`zope.processlifetime.IProcessStarting` is triggered after component registry has been loaded and Zope is starting up.

`zope.processlifetime.IDatabaseOpened` is triggered after the main ZODB database has been opened.

> ## Event handlers

Reviewer: this is more conceptional, right?
